---
title: "Global Audiovisual Archiving Summer School"
collection: teaching
type: "Graduate course"
permalink: /teaching/FILM-5800
venue: "York University, Cinema and Media Arts Department"
date: 2024-06-15
location: "Toronto, Canada"
---
This is a condensed Summer Institute-style graduate seminar course that I co-directed with Drs. Janine Marchessault and Michael Zryd. The course features a number of curators, artists, archivists, and scholars associated with the Archive/Counter-Archive SSHRC Partnership Grant and the 2nd Global Audiovisual Archiving Conference as guest speakers to talk about their work with archival film and film heritage.

<b>Course Description</b>: Focusing on new theoretical models of the archive, digital experiments with audio-visual archives along diverse curatorial approaches to archiving, students will develop scholarly and curatorial projects that help to imagine and enact new ways of curating and presenting audiovisual archives in public and/or community spaces. Such approaches might be defined through site-specific exhibitions, projections, and other forms of media activation that recast history to encompass diverse community perspectives and needs: Indigenous, LGBTQ2S+, diasporic, differently abled, and feminist. 

Guest curators, archivists, artists, and scholars associated with Archive/Counter-Archive counterarchive.ca will present their work and specific case studies. The class will also revolve around the Global Audiovisual Archiving Conference, which will be held at the TIFF Lightbox on July 12, 13, and 14. The conference will be live-streamed, so students can attend virtually or in person.

<b>Participating Speakers</b>: Axelle Demus, Mariane Boucheix-Laporte, Andrew Burke, Skye Callow, David Clark, Antoine Damiens, Paul Gordon, Jillian Groening, Patrick Keilty, Laura Horak, Susan Lord, Cait McKinney, Melissa J. Nelson, Ylenia Olibet, Jennifer Smith, Leslie Supnet, Jennifer VanderBurgh, Haoran Chang, Susan Lord, Mary Elizabeth Luka, Claudia Sicondolfo, and Nadine Valcin.



